ER - model is entity relationship model. It is the blueprint or logical structure of a database

entity:
It is an object. Table is an entity. An entity is represented as rectangle in ER diagram
strong entity:
It must have primary key
weak entity:
We cannot classify the records uniquely. it is represented as double rectangle

Attribute:
an attribute describes the property of an entity. Column are attributes. Attributes are represented as oval in ER diagram.
Primary key is called key attribute. Key attribute:
attribute which is unique for all the rows
Simple attribute:
it cannot be divided into more  simpler components. for ex- roll no
Composite attribute:
it can be divided into more simpler components. for ex- name, it can be divided into first name and surname
Single valued attribute:
It cannot take multiple values for each instance. for ex- age
multi-valued attribute:
It can take multiple values, for ex- phone no, it can be two or more for same instance or person. It is represented as double oval
stored attribute: 
an attribute which is permanent, for ex- name, dob
derived attribute:
an attribute which is derived from another, for ex- age is derived from dob. derived attributes are generally represented by dashed line oval

relationship: 
association between entities are called relationship. It is represented by diamond symbol
for ex- employee works for an organization. here entities are employee and organization and relationship between is  "works for"
weak relationship:
it is used to connect with weak entity. here symbol used is double diamond
degree of relationship:
number of entities are involved in the relationship. The n-ary relationship is general for degree n
unary relationship:
relationship exists between members of same set, for ex- empolyee <-> manager relationship. here both of them are employees (same set).
binary relationship:
here the relationship exist between members of two different sets or classes. for ex- employee and organization.

Cardinality of a relationship:
one to one relationship:
a single instance of an entity is associated with single instance of another entity, for ex- person to passport
one to many relationship:
a single instance of an entity is associated with many instances of another entity. for ex- person having many mobile numbers
many to many relationship: more than one instance of an entity is associated with more than one instance of another entity.
for ex- student <-> project relationship. one student can do many projects, similary many students can work on one project
many to one relationship:
reverse of one to many relationship

Cardinality ratio:
Min cardinality: minimum number of relationship made by one member of the set
Max cardinality: maximum number of relationship made by one member of the set
if min cardinality is 0: partial participation (at least entity is not participating). It is represented with single line
if min cardinality is 1: total participation (all entities are participating at least once). It is represented with double line